All right.
So the last thing we'll talk about in this section the last bit of new information has to do with exiting
our loops in a controlled manner so we can have a loop like a WHILE loop that might be running forever
or might be running 10000 times.
But maybe there's one particular case or reason you might want to quit early and there's a way to do
that.
So the keyword is break break is what we write to exit out of a loop whenever we want.
And I did write while loop but further down I said for loops.
So it does work for both.
But the first example is of a WHILE loop.
So here's an example of an infinite loop.
At least it seems infinite While true.
So that will always run.
But we're setting a variable called command equal to input and we're asking for them to type exit to
quit the loop.
And then if command is equal to exit we break.
And that will then halt the execution of the loop.
So I'll show you clear this out and let's do a simple break up why.
I'll paste this in and Python 3 I can type anything keeps going infinitely until I type exit and it
breaks out of the loop for us.
So here's an example with a for loop.
It's silly and you would never do this.
But in this case we're putting the numbers from 1 to 100.
And what will happen.
Well we print number and then if X is 3 we break the loop and we stop.
So the end result is that we basically print the numbers from 1 to 3 even though the loop intended to
go from 1 to 100.
So a pace that instead let's execute this make some space.
Now we run Python 3 break and we get 1 2 and 3.
And lastly here's one more example using an exercise that we already did earlier where you know you
could put a number of times like 10 times and it will repeat.
Clean up your room 10 times.
But if this was a real relationship between a son or daughter and parent they would probably not sit
there saying clean your room clean up your 100 times maybe three times maybe two times.
I mean who knows.
You know it really depends on households and not try to make any assumptions about anyone's childhood
here.
But in this hypothetical environment four times is the limit.
Yelling.
Clean up your room four times.
And after four we'll just say Do you even listen anymore and break out of the loop.
So let me show you that.
Come at this out pace this one in.
So we're asking for how many times they tell you we enter number like 2 and reprint can appear two times.
But if the number is 50 we'll do it the first two three four times.
But then once we get above four we print to even listen anymore and we break out of the loop.
So it's a way of putting a maximum and a stopping point.
So the same thing would work with a while loop but let's run this now.
How many times do I have to tell you three.
OK.
So if we get a free room three times.
But how about 40.
If we get clean every room and actually we're getting five times here.
Well the problem is that this loop put the range.
It actually starts with times at zero.
So it's actually 0 1 2 3.
And so for it to equal four.
It's only on the fifth time through the loop.
Oh my gosh.
Can't type so we could either change this to be greater than or equal to three I like that.
Or we could offset the loop and have it start at 1.
But let's just use greater than equal to 3.
Now if we try it if I say 30 times we get 1 2 3 4.
Break even listen anymore.
OK so that break.
It's a controlled way of exiting the loop.
You can just a single line break put it wherever you want instead of a loop.
If you did on the first line nothing would ever run in that loop.
So just I should be clear about that.
It doesn't break out of you know after this loop iteration ends it breaks out immediately.
So if I move it and I enter 10 nothing happens at all it quits right there.
So I'll put it back and that's it.
So the next thing we'll do is take a look at our rock paper scissors game and put it in a loop so that
you can play more than once.